---
layout: page
title: Networked Cross-Dressing A Digital Refashioning of Shakespearean Gender Subversion
description: Here I evaluate "Networked Cross-Dressing A Digital Refashioning of Shakespearean Gender Subversion" from Digital Humanities Quarterly  
---
## Source

[Digital Humanities Quarterly "Networked Cross-Dressing A Digital Refashioning of Shakespearean Gender Subversion."  Accessed October 21, 2022.] (http://digitalhumanities.org/dhq/vol/16/3/000562/000562.html)
   
## Evaluation

“Networked Cross-Dressing: A Digital Refashioning of Shakespearean Gender Subversion” was published in DHQ: Digital Humanities Quarterly (Vol. 16.3) and uses network theory and network analysis to analyze Shakespeare’s plays in new and visual ways.  This project considers previous (and differing) scholarly opinions on this topic and attempts to draw its conclusions based on generated models instead of by the traditional method of closely reading the texts.  The questions this research can be used to answer pertain to, in the words of the authors, “how characters become gendered through a non-linear, non-hierarchical lattice of social relationships” (Simpson et al., §: 5).  

Using NetworkX, a Python package for studying networks and relationships, the researchers were able to track cross-dressing in Shakespeare’s plays and, more importantly, interactions between (and among) characters scene-by-scene.  One of the strengths of this project lies within the capabilities of NetworkX in that this package graphically represents the volume and frequency of speech rather than representing an unweighted visual.  Another strength of this research is that it discards structures upon which the human mind will often base assumptions and is, for this reason, conceivably less biased (Simpson et al., §: 10).    

One of the results of this project was the realization that female characters dressed as men in Shakespeare’s plays “reconfigure the contours of the [social] structure itself” (Simpson et al., §: 13).  Before they were dressed as men, these female characters had, overall, very few lines of direct speech assigned to them, and these limited interactions usually took place with one other woman.  Dressed as men however, these same women were subsequently able to sustain prolonged conversations with many different male characters (and these interactions represented by employing clustering).  In these clusters, the overlapping circles (representing characters) and those with very short lines connecting them are the most closely connected while those connected by longer lines are less involved in the speaking network as “they minimize the sum of all distances to all other vertices” (Simpson et al., §: 25).  

One of the weaknesses of this project is the fact that it is perhaps too divorced from a contextual reading and in proposing that “[c]ross-dressing female protagonists consistently gain a central position in the social networks involved in the final moves of the plays” (Simpson et al., §: 27).  The fact that these cross-dressing female characters are among the protagonists is not addressed while the authors are quick to note that non-cross-dressing female characters retain their “marginal social position” (Simpson et al., §: 27).  It seems that this type of modeling can often be responsible for a fallacy of false attribution.  While it may be true that, when looking at the data alone, cross-dressing female protagonists are able to occupy a social position previously unavailable to them, it is also important to consider the possibility that these characters would naturally occupy primary places within the narrative by virtue of the fact that they are protagonists.  The fact that they gain a “central position” could just as easily be attributed to their primary roles in the narrative as it could be to the fact that they are cross-dressing.
